add a new azure article (#1047)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-ci/azure-using-templates-with-semgrep.md

---
tags:

>   - Azure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Azure Pipelines
```
Just suggesting we specify the product because we also have to differentiate Azure Active Directory and Azure Repos 👍

  - Templates

> description: Using templates in Azure pipelines with Semgrep commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Running Semgrep commands through templates in Azure Pipelines.
```
Tried to make this clearer. The noun "with Semgrep commands" could mean we are executing Semgrep commands on the Azure Pipeline, however weird that sounds to us, someone who isn't too familiar with Semgrep might think we're scanning the YAML file.

---

> # Using templates in Azure pipelines with Semgrep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Running Semgrep commands in Azure Pipelines templates

## Motivation

> Complex code can take more work to maintain and modify. So, encapsulating some functionalities in functions, methods, or external files is a good programming practice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complex code can take more work to maintain and modify. It is a good programming practice to encapsulate some functionalities in external files. By referencing these external files, you are able to reuse a particular functionality.
```

> That is the primary goal of Azure templates: extract some functionalities (snippets) defined in a big yaml file to an external file (template). With that, we are improving pipelines' readability and maintainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary goal of Azure templates is to extract some functionalities defined in a big yaml file and place these into an external file (the [template](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/templates?view=azure-devops)). This improves a pipeline's readability and maintainability.
```

I removed "snippets" because the official documentation also refers to them as "reusable content" and code snippets are a generic term while these templates are specific to Azure Pipelines. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/templates?view=azure-devops

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains the following procedures:

* Creating template files which run Semgrep commands.
* Including or calling templates into your Azure Pipeline.

You can then reuse the template files in as many Pipelines as you need.
```
Just reinterating the goal and benefit of this guide.

> ## Defining Semgrep snippets in a template file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Defining Semgrep code snippets in a template file
```

> Adding semgrep commands in a yaml template is a simple task. In the example, we will create two templates, one for Semgrep full scan and one for Semgrep pull request scans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To add Semgrep commands in a YAML template file:

 1. Create a `templates` folder in the repository you want to run Semgrep in.
 2. Commit the following two templates: 

This section includes two sample templates:
* Template for Semgrep full scans
* Template for [Semgrep diff-aware scans](https://semgrep.dev/docs/semgrep-ci/running-semgrep-ci-without-semgrep-cloud-platform/#diff-aware-scanning)
```

Our preferred term for PR scans is "diff-aware" scans.

> Example for Semgrep full scan in a template yaml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Example for Semgrep full scan in a template yaml file:
```
Indent so that it follows the ordered list above.

> ``````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Template for Semgrep full scans:
    ```yaml
```

> steps:

Reviewer: (You will have to indent this YAML snippet)

Author: Yes, please

- script: |
    echo "Semgrep full scan"
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install semgrep
    semgrep ci
``````

> Example for Semgrep pull request scan in a template yaml file:

Reviewer: I can also take care of indenting this and adding it to the ordered list.

Author: Yes, please.

``````
steps:
- checkout: self
  clean: true
  fetchDepth: 10000
- script: |
    echo "Pull Request Scan from branch: $(Build.SourceBranchName)"
    git fetch origin master:origin/master
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install semgrep
    semgrep ci
  env:
    SEMGREP_PR_ID: $(System.PullRequest.PullRequestNumber)
    SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF: 'origin/master'
``````

> Note that we split semgrep scans (full and pull request) as there are some essential differences in setting environment variables such as SEMGREP_PR_ID and SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF in the pull request template.

## Including templates in an Azure Pipeline

> Now we can add these templates in the repo, for example, in a folder called templates.

Reviewer: Do we have to do this per repo that we want to onboard? Just checking because one of the benefits is code reuse, so I thought we could reference it "globally" across all repos. Thank you.

Author: Maybe it is better to say: "We can add these templates in the repo, for example, in a templates folder or even better, add them to a (centralised repo and reference it)[https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/templates?view=azure-devops#use-other-repositories]"

Author: It was reviewed by @sinat101 too.

Then the Semgrep pipeline can look like this:

``````
pool:
  vmImage: ubuntu-latest

variables:
- group: Semgrep_Variables

jobs:
- job: Semgrep_Full_Scan
  condition: eq(variables['Build.SourceBranchName'], 'master')
  steps:
  - template: templates/full_scan_semgrep.yml

- job: Semgrep_PR_Scan
  condition: ne(variables['Build.SourceBranchName'], 'master')
  steps:
  - template: templates/pr_scan_semgrep.yml
``````

## Conclusion

> Using templates in Azure pipelines is a good practice to simplify pipelines code and improve readability and maintainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using templates in Azure pipelines is a good practice to simplify your Pipelines configuration file and improve readability and maintainability.
```

> > Adding these templates and the semgrep pipeline itself to all the repositories in an organization is something that we can definitively automate to speed up the onboarding process. 

Reviewer: Would you say that these are the next steps in onboarding many repositories?

Author: Maybe it sounds better: "It is worth automating the creation of templates and Semgrep pipelines to speed up the onboarding process."

Author: It was reviewed by @sinat101 too.

To add Semgrep commands in a YAML template file:

 1. Create a `templates` folder in the repository you want to run Semgrep in.
 2. Commit the following two templates: 
	
	Example for Semgrep full scan in a template yaml file:

	```yaml
	steps:
	- script: |
	    echo "Semgrep full scan"
	    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
	    pip install semgrep
	    semgrep ci
	```
 
	Example for Semgrep pull request scan in a template yaml file:

	```yaml
	steps:
	- checkout: self
	  clean: true
	  fetchDepth: 10000
	- script: |
	    echo "Pull Request Scan from branch: $(Build.SourceBranchName)"
	    git fetch origin master:origin/master
	    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
	    pip install semgrep
	    semgrep ci
	  env:
	    SEMGREP_PR_ID: $(System.PullRequest.PullRequestNumber)
	    SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF: 'origin/master'
	```
 
	Note that you must use two separate templates for full scans and [diff-aware scans](/semgrep-ci/running-semgrep-ci-without-semgrep-cloud-platform/#diff-aware-scanning). This is because there are different environment variables used depending on the type of scan such as `SEMGREP_PR_ID` and `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` in the template for diff-aware scans.

> ## Including templates in an Azure Pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Referencing templates in an Azure Pipeline
```

> Now we can add these templates in the repo, for example, in a folder called templates.
> Then the Semgrep pipeline can look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now with your templates defined,  you can reference them in other Azure Pipelines like this:
```

``````
pool:
  vmImage: ubuntu-latest

variables:
- group: Semgrep_Variables

jobs:
- job: Semgrep_Full_Scan
  condition: eq(variables['Build.SourceBranchName'], 'master')
  steps:
  - template: templates/full_scan_semgrep.yml

- job: Semgrep_PR_Scan
  condition: ne(variables['Build.SourceBranchName'], 'master')
  steps:
  - template: templates/pr_scan_semgrep.yml
``````

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::tip
You can even define your templates in a centralized repo and [reference them in other repos](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/templates?view=azure-devops#use-other-repositories).
:::
```

## Conclusion

> Using templates in Azure pipelines is a good practice to simplify your Pipelines configuration file and improve readability and maintainability.
> > Adding these templates and the semgrep pipeline itself to all the repositories in an organization is something that we can definitively automate to speed up the onboarding process. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using templates in Azure Pipelines is a good practice to simplify pipeline configuration files, improving both readability and maintainability. Pipeline templates can also speed up the Semgrep onboarding process for repositories by allowing you to reuse the same template in each repository.
```
